-: Welcome back.
In this lecture we are going to create a Fargate profile
on our EKS Cluster, EKS demo one, right?
So before that we are going to verify
any Fargate profiles exist.
So EKSCTL get fargateprofile in cluster, EKS demo one.
So let's go ahead and then verify that now, right?
So I'll go back here
and then I'll say clear and I'll paste it, right?
So if any Fargate profiles are there,
it is going to list for us, no Fargate profiles found.
So we are going to create a Fargate profile.
So the template is hyphen hyphen cluster
EKSCTL create fargateprofile and the cluster name,
and the Fargate profile name if we want to use,
and the namespace, whatever we want to use, right?
So namespace is the core thing here, which is nothing,
but if our application is deployed with this namespace,
automatically that respective applications pods
are going to get scheduled under this Fargate profile.
So what we are going to do is,
we are going to copy this and then paste it, right?
So the namespace tag, whatever we provide is the critical.
So in, if our application deployments
have a namespace reference to FP Dev, means
like our deployment related manifest has FP Dev,
then that respective pods
inside that deployment are going to reference
and then deploy on this respective Fargate profile.
So as soon as Fargate profile is created,
so there will not be any instances present there.
Only when we deploy the workload,
which means the deployments,
then only the Fargate instances will get created.
Okay? So let's wait for this profile to get created.
So we can see that Fargate profile got created.
So one important thing here is when you are going to
create this Fargate profile first time, right,
in your respective EKS cluster where you already
have existing managed node groups running, right?
So at that point, it is also going to create
a Fargate pod execution role also.
So at that time you're going to see this type of output.
So already this is created when I'm testing
for different things.
So this output you didn't see now, okay, so you said,
you have seen that it tried to create it
and then finally created it. Okay?
So that's all, but ideally it also
will create a Fargate pod execution role
as part of whenever you create your first Fargate profile
inside your cluster, right?
So now let's move on and then review the manifest
as part of whatever we are going to deploy
to our Fargate profile, right?
So we are going to deploy a simple Nginx app one
with ingress load balancer.
So we cannot use worker node, nodeport
for Fargate pods for two reasons, right?
Fargate ports are created in private subnets,
so no access to internet to access them.
So Fargate ports are created on random worker nodes
whose information is unknown to us
to create a nodeport service.
That is also another important thing, and,
but in our case, when we are doing the mixed mode
environment with node groups and then Fargate,
if we created nodeport service with ingress load balancer
and then there is no target type of IP related annotation,
still things are going to work because the nodeport service
whatever you have created is going to
also present on managed node groups also.
As part of that, you'll get the worker node ports
from managed node groups.
So that is not a good option
and always it is recommended for Fargate loads to use.
Target type is equal to IP as the annotation
at the ingress manifest level or if we have a mixed mode
multiple applications deploying,
for that respective application
who needs IP related target type
on our application load balancer, you can use IP.
So now the first thing is to create
a namespace manifest for us. Okay?
So we usually use 01 or 00 for our namespace manifest
and namespace is the mandatory one.
For our respective applications,
we need to map to that respective name space,
then only they can be deployed
or scheduled to that Fargate profile.
So now we are going to create a API version V1
kind namespace and the name is FP Dev.
So let's go back here and if you see that,
namespace zero one,
namespace in 0901 Fargate profile basics,
you can see zero one namespace.
So this is there, and the second one is,
update all other manifest with the namespace
whatever we are creating.
So one is Nginx app one.
So if you see it here in its deployment manifest
under the metadata, you can see namespace FP Dev is added
in the same way it's equal and nodeport service also
under the metadata, namespace FP Dev is added.
So rest all health check URL,
all those things we are not changing which is coming
from previous examples only. Okay?
So only namespace added with FP Dev.
One more is ALB ingress SSL redirect with the external DNS
whatever we have implemented earlier, right?
So in our previous section, the same thing.
And here also, under metadata section for ingress service,
we have added namespace FP Dev.
In addition to that, we are also going to add
for our deployment manifest, right?
So we are going to add resources section.
So why this resources section?
So this is another important thing.
So in Fargate, it is super highly recommended
to provide the resources that requests
and then resources that limits
about our CPU and memory in our deployment manifests.
So almost you can make it as mandatory. Okay?
So hundred percent we need to use this.
That is the good option. Okay?
So this will help Fargate to schedule
a Fargate host accordingly, means like the Fargate host
whatever it is going to create
for that pod to be hosted there.
So how much resources that Fargate host need to have
will be decided based on how much you provide
inside this request section.
So it's not going to use whatever you provide here,
more than this only it is going to allocate,
but there will be some calculation here, okay?
So it'll take this much example,
you take memory 128 MB you are giving
and it is also going to allocate
plus 256 MB for its kubelet,
and then Kubernetes related core things to run
on the worker nodes, right?
So for kubelet and other things,
and then accordingly it'll decide the value
and then provide the memory for our Fargate host.
So in addition to that, as Fargate follows
1:1 ratio, host to pod, one pod per host concept,
we defining resource section in pod template, right?
So deployment pod template spec should be
our mandatory option.
Even if you forget to define resources
in our deployment template, low memory using pods
like Nginx will come up and then keep running. Okay?
So those will not have any issues most of the time.
But, high memory using apps
like Spring Boot, REST APIs or anything, it will be
in the continuous restart mode in your Fargate profile,
so which is not good.
So always recommended to use resources section.
So let's go back to our Nginx app one deployment section
and you can see we have added the,
even it is Nginx I have added, right,
in the pod template spec, so under containers.
And then for this, you are adding the respective
resources for this container.
For this container, it need this much information
of resources to be allocated
or it requests for this much information
and it can go for this limit whenever it needs.
So that's about it.
So in addition to that, update ingress manifest
with ALB ingress Kubernetes target type is IP.
So as we already discussed multiple times about this one,
as we are running our pods on Fargate serverless,
we need to change our target to,
target type to IP because we really don't have
any dedicated worker nodes here. Okay?
So now in addition to that, we will also
update our DNS name to FP Dev dot kuban cloud.com.
So let's go to ingress manifest.
And you can see it here, this is already added
and external DNS name also I'm going to say,
"FP Dev dot kuban cloud.com."
So one thing important here,
we need to note is like this can be defined even
at the service level here, okay?
So you can even define it
at the service level based on our set of applications.
So in this ingress, you have few applications with the
EC2 worker nodes,
and then you want to go with nodeport service for them
and few applications with Fargate
and the same ingress service you are planning to use.
So few with the worker node, nodeport
and then few with the instance IP
if you want to use then you should not define this here.
Okay?
For all the Fargate deployment related things,
we can take this IP and then put it
in our respective nodeport service annotations,
and we can leave the default, which is target type instance
for other related worker node stuff, okay?
So that for deployment related too
which we are going to host on managed node groups,
they directly get the nodeport,
nodeport related stuff automatically.
Okay?
So this completes the review of our
manifests and also
about this creation of our all these Fargate profile.
So in our next lecture, we'll focus
on deploying these things and then testing.
So I'll see you in the next lecture.
Until then, bye bye.
Thank you.